I was walking out as they were
walking in. We passed them,
and my partner and I rubbernecked, and we
were like, “What the fuck is happening?”
I saw them come in and walk down the hall. I could
hear my heart beating in my ears. The head guy,
his manner was slick and patronizing.
Think he had an elbow on the counter,
and he’s like... He didn’t call me “little
lady,” but he just might as well have.
I had no real clear idea of our legal
right to even do this. When they showed up,
my response was, “Ah. I’ve been caught.
Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, I’ll open the door, sir."
I didn’t have any kind of clarity that they
shouldn’t be here, that this was our space.
I heard it over the headset. They were saying
something about men coming into the space.
I wasn’t clear. I wasn’t clear even at first that
they were police. I just knew that they were men.
The voices in my ear were saying, like,
“Tell people quietly. Don’t make a big scene,
but let people know if you can that
there are men in the space.”
Somebody had said that there was lap dances
happening downstairs, and I was like, “Lap Dances?!"
So, I run all the way downstairs andthe staff
were there. I said, “Hey, where are the
lap dances happening?” And then I see these dudes
standing behind them. I said, “Who are those guys?
Are they here to repair the pool?” And they went,
“They’re not pool repairmen. They’re cops."
I went straight up to them and said, “What can
I help you with?” And the guy at the front,
he and another one of the cops stopped,
and then two of the others peeled off
and started heading through the club. And
I said, “Where are those guys going?”
So, I was on the first floor when they came
in. The energy changed. Things went shushed
very quickly. Everyone’s like, “What’s going on?
What’s going on?” And then I heard people say,
“The cops are here. What do we do?” We just stood
there and waited to see what would happen.
And all of a sudden you see one woman come
into the corner of the pool and lean down,
and it was like a wildfire. Everybody in the
pool scattered. They just jumped out of it,
grabbed towels. There was a mass
exodus of people leaving.
Rushing up the stairs came Richard
and waslike, “Shut the bar down. Close it up.
You, you, okay. Two more bottles. Ch-ch-ch. Bye.”
By the time any police officers arrived on,
I guess it would’ve been the
second level of the club,
that bar was shut and the cupboard
behind me was locked with a padlock.
So, we walked up the one flight of stairs. I took
the permit off the wall. I said, “Look, as you
can see, it’s all in order. We have a permit for
the event. Is there any problem?” He said, “No,
there doesn’t appear to be a problem. We’re going
to need to walk around the space.” And I said,
“I don’t think that’s a good idea. Like, I
can’t stop you, but this is...all women event.”
I was in the change room. Still have on
my leather pants, and nothing else. And I’m
not a light person. Maybe masculine-identified,
but I’m also very heavily chested. So,
it was kind of like, the girls are out,
the girls are busy tonight. I was with somebody
else. Police officer walks up to us and the cop, I
have no pity for him because he doesn’t know where
to look. And I’m like, “Can I help you?”
They were clearly lookin’ at tits. It was the way
they looked, the way they acted. They were not
polite. They were there for one thing: to watch
the women, ogle the women, stare at the women.
I went into a panic. I thought, “Well, I’m wearing
black. If I just go into a corner, no one will see
me.” And the one thing that sticks with me is that
one of them was whistling. “Do-do-do-do-do.” And
I thought, “Well, that’s odd. Strange thing to
be doing when you’re supposedly raiding.”
Oh, my God, yes. Laughing and pointing.
It didn’t feel like a raid. What it felt
like were a couple of tourists at a
zoo. As a trans person from the 90s,
I was terrified of the police, especially as
a trans woman. There were so many stories I’d
heard from trans women, especially street
workers, where cops had arrested them and
then put them into a male jail cell. So, I
was personally terrified. I wasn’t afraid
of whether I had done something. I was
just afraid that they were there.
I remember feeling confused. “Is this a big
deal? Are we all going to die? Or is this
one of those things where... Given a hassle
and then it finishes, and nobody even thinks
twice about it?” The other thing I remember
is just thinking, “Wow, men are really tall.”
Because once they entered the space, it became
so clear that the rest of us were so small.
This particular bathhouse had the most
BIPOC folks in any bathhouse that we’d had,
and certainly black women left really quickly,
trans folks left really quickly. If you’ve ever
had to deal with the cops, you know, they’re
dangerous. And folks really felt scared.
When I open the door, three,
maybe four of them were blocking the door. They
held us in there for... Mmm, I feel like it
was at least 20 minutes. They asked our names,
they were writing notes, they asked for ID.
And I remember one of the bathhouse committee
members was standing outside the room,
and she made eye contact with me,
communicating that they were watching. Our
people were taking care of each other.
They asked me what the sling was. And
I said, “It’s a sex sling. You’ve never
seen one before?” Like I said, I was filled
with bravado that night. I was intoxicated,
so I had confidence juice in me. I was up
for the little challenge of it. And I was
a little bit like, “How dare you? You look
like idiots. These are just a bunch of women
having a good time naked. This is what you
want to spend your resources on, really?”
As one of the people who was a signatory on the
SOP [special occasion permit], I knew that it
was going to be me. The cops made it clear
that they were going to try and nail us.
Well, the actions taken by the police were
complete bullshit. It was an abuse of state power.
The police will kick around whoever they can get
away with kicking around. And then, as a result of
the raid, they found out that they couldn’t. They
had no public support for the raid, and so that’s
actually why we won. We won because the community
solidly and immediately backed us. Because you
have to have that kind of power if you’re
going to fight something like the police.
Obviously, what happened with the police was wrong
and wounding. That being said, it coalesced people
into more fierceness, made people more defiant,
made them more loyal to sexual space politics.
There’s people who came to know each other, become
friends and lovers because of the raid. It made
love happen between people, and so it was
defining. The politics around the Palace changed
so much during that period of time. It was deeper
conversation, it was more cognizant, especially of
trans people in the space. Yeah, that happened and
now we have new gifts, new opportunities to care
for each other and to speak to the most subtle
things that agents of the state do to control us.